README.md, before:

# Brickblock Smart Contracts

## Overview
* This README shows how to work with our smart contracts.
* [ECOSYSTEM.md](./ECOSYSTEM.md) gives an architectural overview and detailed information about the individual contracts
* [TEST-AGAINST-GETH.md](./TEST-AGAINST-GETH.md) explains how to run the tests against `geth` instead of truffle's `ganache`
* [WORST-CASE-SCENARIOS.md](./WORST-CASE-SCENARIOS.md) analyzes what could go wrong along with potential mitigation steps

## Prerequisites
* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) (we always work with the [latest LTS release](https://github.com/nodejs/Release#release-schedule))
* [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com)
* [Python 3](https://www.python.org) for running [mythril](https://github.com/ConsenSys/mythril)

## Installing
1. Create local `.env`:
    
    ```sh
    cp .env.example .env
    ```
    
    This is necessary to configure the right `$NODE_PATH` for easier pathing, for example.

1. Install dependencies:

    ```sh
    yarn
    ```

1. Install [mythril](https://github.com/ConsenSys/mythril), a security analysis tool for Ethereum smart contracts

    ```sh
    # You will need python3 and pip3 for this to work
    pip3 install mythril
    ```

## Testing
Tests are split in three categories: Main tests, Stress tests and Frozen Contract tests. In development mode we run all tests against truffle's [ganache](http://truffleframework.com/ganache/). Before submitting contracts to auditors or deploying contracts to Mainnet we always run the tests against `geth`, too. [TEST-AGAINST-GETH.md](./TEST-AGAINST-GETH.md) explains how this works. It is a heck of a lot slower _but_ it is closer to the production environment in which our contracts will eventually run so it gives as a higher degree of certainty that everything really works as expected.

#### Main Tests
Unit tests, testing the general functionality of our contracts.

Run them with:

```sh
yarn test
```

#### Stress Tests

Stress tests are implemented to mimic real world scenarios, such as creating reasonable random transaction amounts with maximum available iterations and users. That's why it is recomended to run these tests using an external ganache with the config mentioned below to assure there is enough money and users to put contracts under pressure.
The stress tests throw random values at those contracts where integer division can result in minor inaccuracies. These tests ensure that this "dust" doesn't get too big to be of significance.
They are split out of the normal tests because they take a very long time to run due to the amount of transactions being performed.

Run them with:   

- (Optional but recommended step) Run an external ganache with the following config, users: 100, default ether balance: 1000
- Each stress test should be run individually. To run a stress test:
```
yarn test:stress-test stress-tests/[testFilename.js]
```

#### Frozen Contract Tests
Contracts that have already been audited and/or deployed to Mainnet, so they're immutable for now. For example, `BrickblockToken` and `CustomPOAToken`.

Run them with:

```sh
yarn test:frozen
```

## Security Analysis
You can check for common smart contract vulnerabilities in our code with mythril:

```sh
yarn test:mythril
```

## Linting
Linting both `*.js` and `*.sol` files can be done using:

```
yarn lint
```

Lint `.sol` only:

```
yarn lint:sol
```

Lint `.js` only:

```
yarn lint:js
```

## Deployment
### Local testnet

Deploying with truffle will execute the [migrations/2_deploy_contracts.js](https://git.brickblock-dev.io/platform/smart-contracts/blob/master/migrations/2_deploy_contracts.js) which does the following:

1. Choose the right network configuration (depends on the `--network` argument)
2. Deploy registry
3. Deploy other contracts
4. Add all contracts to registry
5. Set ETH/EUR exchange rate
6. Run `finalizeTokenSale` on BBK contract in order to activate the BBK/ACT/FMR ecosystem
7. Distribute BBK tokens to `accounts[2-5]`

**Note: Make sure you have at least 6 accounts on your node setup**

* `account[0]` is the owner
* `account[1]` is the bonus address for BBK
* `account[2-5]` are BBK token holders


#### To deploy in a local truffle session
1. Run `yarn truffle develop --network dev`
2. In the truffle console, run `migrate --reset` to deploy fresh contract instances
3. Play around with the contracts, e.g. add a broker via

    ```js
    PoaManager.deployed()
        .then(poaManager => {
            poaManager.addBroker(web3.eth.accounts[3])
        })
    ```

#### CLI Helpers for POA :robot:
To move a POA token through different stages manually, we've built a little CLI helper:

1. Open a `truffle` console and deploy the contract ecosystem (see above)
1. Call the helper with `exec ./migrations/helpers/poa-token.js`
1. Follow the interactive prompt :shell:

#### To deploy eco-system using migrations
##### Actions
There are pre-defined actions you can call with migrations
- --forceDeploy, --fd: Deploys contracts given as parameters. 'all' means deploy everything. Can be used with --uec to deploy only selected contracts and use the rest from the registry.
- --register, -r: Registers deployed contracts to Contract Registry
- --setRate, --sr: Updates ExchangeRate Contract to fetch 'EUR' currency from oraclize api (on ganache it uses a constant value instead of a real one) 
- --finalizeBbk, --fb: on BBK contract:
    - calls `changeFountainContractAddress` 
    - if the network is not mainnet, it distributes BBK token to Accounts[4,6]
    - calls `finalizeTokenSale`
    - calls `unpause`
- --addBroker, --ab: Adds accounts[1] as broker to PoaManager
- --deployPoa, --dp: Deploys a sample PoaToken with Broker account
- --addToWhiteList, --aw: Adds accounts[3] to whitelist
- --default, -a: Executes `register`, `setRate`, `finalizeBbk`, `addBroker`, `addToWhitelist` with the same order.
- --useExistingContracts, --uec: Uses existing contracts instead of deploy if they exist in "config/deployed-contracts.js"' with the chosen network. If it cannot find a pre-defined address, it deploys a new contract.
- --changeOwner, --co: Changes owner to `NEW_OWNER` given in `.env` file. Only useful if it deploys to mainnet.
- --help: Displays posible options

NOTES: 
- You have to provide one of `--forceDeploy [arguments]` or `--useExistingContracts` to have the essential functionality.
- Only essential actions are grouped by `default` action to keep it more flexible

1. Start the [Ganache app](http://truffleframework.com/ganache/) (make sure it's running on `8545`in the settings!) or run `yarn ganache-cli -p 8545`
2. Run `yarn migrate:dev --[action name]`


examples:   
```
# Deploy with default actions
yarn migrate:dev --forceDeploy all --default

# Use pre-deployed contracts
yarn migrate:dev --useExistingContracts --default

# Short version
yarn migrate:dev --uec -def

# Deploy with some actions
yarn migrate:dev --forceDeploy all --register --setRate --finalizeBbk

# Deploy selected contracts only and use the rest from the registry
# Note: If contract addresses are not found in `.env` file for dev network or `config/deployed-contracts.js` for testnets, deployment script deploys a new one
yarn migrate:dev --forceDeploy AccessToken BrickblockAccount --useExistingContracts --register

# Forcing to use a contract outside of registry
# First you need to put it inside `.env` file for dev network or `config/deployed-contracts.js`
# then run:
yarn migrate:dev --useExistingContracts  --other params


# To deploy POA Token
# Make sure everything is deployed, registered, BBK finalized, currency set, brokers added and investors whitelisted
# To customize your token, use --deployPoa-[sub argument name]. See help for the full list.
yarn migrate:dev --useExistingContracts -deployPoa

# To see the full list of commands, ask for help
yarn migrate:dev --help
```

#### To deploy on Rinkeby, Kovan or Ropsten
1. Make sure you set `TESTNET_MNEMONIC` and `INFURA_API_KEY` in `.env` file for your HD wallet
2. Make sure you set `ContractRegistry` address field under the right network Id if you don't do a full deployment.
3. Everything else is the same as local deployment
4. Run
```
yarn migrate:[network name] --def --fd all
```
The network name can be `rinkeby`, `kovan`, or `ropsten`

### Interacting with deployed contracts
When you'd like to interact with deployed contracts on a local testnet, check that `truffle.js` setting for `dev` matches your local testrpc / ganache-cli settings and run:

`yarn truffle console --network dev`.

This will open a node.js repl session, with all the compiled contracts available as usual (ie. `BrickblockToken.deployed()` or `PoaToken.at(some-address)`).

If you'd like to interact with contracts on a public testnet (ie. rinkeby, kovan) then we have a command  that also uses `truffle console` and additionally makes use of the library `truffle-hdwallet-provider`. This allows us to specify a remote node to connect with and a mnemonic to give access to accounts in that HDWALLET (like MetaMask does).

NOTE: any valid bip39 mnemonic will work fine unless you want to send transactions or ETH, then you will need ETH in the sending account like usual. Feel free to use the example `HDWALLET_MNEMONIC` below.

An example for rinkeby is:

`HDWALLET_MNEMONIC="ridge approve ten planet fever oyster cargo upper frequent humor hen alcohol" INFURA_URL="https://rinkeby.infura.io" yarn repl`

Commit message:

poa token function execution automation

README.md, after:

# Brickblock Smart Contracts

## Overview
* This README shows how to work with our smart contracts.
* [ECOSYSTEM.md](./ECOSYSTEM.md) gives an architectural overview and detailed information about the individual contracts
* [TEST-AGAINST-GETH.md](./TEST-AGAINST-GETH.md) explains how to run the tests against `geth` instead of truffle's `ganache`
* [WORST-CASE-SCENARIOS.md](./WORST-CASE-SCENARIOS.md) analyzes what could go wrong along with potential mitigation steps

## Prerequisites
* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) (we always work with the [latest LTS release](https://github.com/nodejs/Release#release-schedule))
* [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com)
* [Python 3](https://www.python.org) for running [mythril](https://github.com/ConsenSys/mythril)

## Installing
1. Create local `.env`:
    
    ```sh
    cp .env.example .env
    ```
    
    This is necessary to configure the right `$NODE_PATH` for easier pathing, for example.

1. Install dependencies:

    ```sh
    yarn
    ```

1. Install [mythril](https://github.com/ConsenSys/mythril), a security analysis tool for Ethereum smart contracts

    ```sh
    # You will need python3 and pip3 for this to work
    pip3 install mythril
    ```

## Testing
Tests are split in three categories: Main tests, Stress tests and Frozen Contract tests. In development mode we run all tests against truffle's [ganache](http://truffleframework.com/ganache/). Before submitting contracts to auditors or deploying contracts to Mainnet we always run the tests against `geth`, too. [TEST-AGAINST-GETH.md](./TEST-AGAINST-GETH.md) explains how this works. It is a heck of a lot slower _but_ it is closer to the production environment in which our contracts will eventually run so it gives as a higher degree of certainty that everything really works as expected.

#### Main Tests
Unit tests, testing the general functionality of our contracts.

Run them with:

```sh
yarn test
```

#### Stress Tests

Stress tests are implemented to mimic real world scenarios, such as creating reasonable random transaction amounts with maximum available iterations and users. That's why it is recomended to run these tests using an external ganache with the config mentioned below to assure there is enough money and users to put contracts under pressure.
The stress tests throw random values at those contracts where integer division can result in minor inaccuracies. These tests ensure that this "dust" doesn't get too big to be of significance.
They are split out of the normal tests because they take a very long time to run due to the amount of transactions being performed.

Run them with:   

- (Optional but recommended step) Run an external ganache with the following config, users: 100, default ether balance: 1000
- Each stress test should be run individually. To run a stress test:
```
yarn test:stress-test stress-tests/[testFilename.js]
```

#### Frozen Contract Tests
Contracts that have already been audited and/or deployed to Mainnet, so they're immutable for now. For example, `BrickblockToken` and `CustomPOAToken`.

Run them with:

```sh
yarn test:frozen
```

## Security Analysis
You can check for common smart contract vulnerabilities in our code with mythril:

```sh
yarn test:mythril
```

## Linting
Linting both `*.js` and `*.sol` files can be done using:

```
yarn lint
```

Lint `.sol` only:

```
yarn lint:sol
```

Lint `.js` only:

```
yarn lint:js
```

## Deployment
### Local testnet

Deploying with truffle will execute the [migrations/2_deploy_contracts.js](https://git.brickblock-dev.io/platform/smart-contracts/blob/master/migrations/2_deploy_contracts.js) which does the following:

1. Choose the right network configuration (depends on the `--network` argument)
2. Deploy registry
3. Deploy other contracts
4. Add all contracts to registry
5. Set ETH/EUR exchange rate
6. Run `finalizeTokenSale` on BBK contract in order to activate the BBK/ACT/FMR ecosystem
7. Distribute BBK tokens to `accounts[2-5]`

**Note: Make sure you have at least 6 accounts on your node setup**

* `account[0]` is the owner
* `account[1]` is the bonus address for BBK
* `account[2-5]` are BBK token holders


#### To deploy in a local truffle session
1. Run `yarn truffle develop --network dev`
2. In the truffle console, run `migrate --reset` to deploy fresh contract instances
3. Play around with the contracts, e.g. add a broker via

    ```js
    PoaManager.deployed()
        .then(poaManager => {
            poaManager.addBroker(web3.eth.accounts[3])
        })
    ```

#### To deploy eco-system using migrations
##### Actions
There are pre-defined actions you can call with migrations
- --forceDeploy, --fd: Deploys contracts given as parameters. 'all' means deploy everything. Can be used with --uec to deploy only selected contracts and use the rest from the registry.
- --register, -r: Registers deployed contracts to Contract Registry
- --setRate, --sr: Updates ExchangeRate Contract to fetch 'EUR' currency from oraclize api (on ganache it uses a constant value instead of a real one) 
- --finalizeBbk, --fb: on BBK contract:
    - calls `changeFountainContractAddress` 
    - if the network is not mainnet, it distributes BBK token to Accounts[4,6]
    - calls `finalizeTokenSale`
    - calls `unpause`
- --addBroker, --ab: Adds accounts[1] as broker to PoaManager
- --deployPoa, --dp: Deploys a sample PoaToken with Broker account
- --addToWhiteList, --aw: Adds accounts[3] to whitelist
- --default, -a: Executes `register`, `setRate`, `finalizeBbk`, `addBroker`, `addToWhitelist` with the same order.
- --useExistingContracts, --uec: Uses existing contracts instead of deploy if they exist in "config/deployed-contracts.js"' with the chosen network. If it cannot find a pre-defined address, it deploys a new contract.
- --changeOwner, --co: Changes owner to `NEW_OWNER` given in `.env` file. Only useful if it deploys to mainnet.
- --help: Displays posible options

NOTES: 
- You have to provide one of `--forceDeploy [arguments]` or `--useExistingContracts` to have the essential functionality.
- Only essential actions are grouped by `default` action to keep it more flexible

1. Start the [Ganache app](http://truffleframework.com/ganache/) (make sure it's running on `8545`in the settings!) or run `yarn ganache-cli -p 8545`
2. Run `yarn migrate:dev --[action name]`


examples:   
```
# Deploy with default actions
yarn migrate:dev --forceDeploy all --default

# Use pre-deployed contracts
yarn migrate:dev --useExistingContracts --default

# Short version
yarn migrate:dev --uec -def

# Deploy with some actions
yarn migrate:dev --forceDeploy all --register --setRate --finalizeBbk

# Deploy selected contracts only and use the rest from the registry
# Note: If contract addresses are not found in `.env` file for dev network or `config/deployed-contracts.js` for testnets, deployment script deploys a new one
yarn migrate:dev --forceDeploy AccessToken BrickblockAccount --useExistingContracts --register

# Forcing to use a contract outside of registry
# First you need to put it inside `.env` file for dev network or `config/deployed-contracts.js`
# then run:
yarn migrate:dev --useExistingContracts  --other params


# To deploy POA Token
# Make sure everything is deployed, registered, BBK finalized, currency set, brokers added and investors whitelisted
# To customize your token, use --deployPoa-[sub argument name]. See help for the full list.
yarn migrate:dev --useExistingContracts -deployPoa

# To see the full list of commands, ask for help
yarn migrate:dev --help
```

#### To deploy on Rinkeby, Kovan or Ropsten
1. Make sure you set `TESTNET_MNEMONIC` and `INFURA_API_KEY` in `.env` file for your HD wallet
2. Make sure you set `ContractRegistry` address field under the right network Id if you don't do a full deployment.
3. Everything else is the same as local deployment
4. Run
```
yarn migrate:[network name] --def --fd all
```
The network name can be `rinkeby`, `kovan`, or `ropsten`

### Interacting with deployed contracts
When you'd like to interact with deployed contracts on a local testnet, check that `truffle.js` setting for `dev` matches your local testrpc / ganache-cli settings and run:


#### Using deployment script
- Make sure you you are running a local testnet and deployed the contracts using deployment script.
- Make sure you put `ContractRegistry` address to `.env` file. (see `.env.example` for an example)

There are some arguments to know before moving on:

- --execute, --exec: you have to give a contract name as parameter to this argument. Currently it only supports `PoaToken`
- --execute-functionName, --exec-fn: function name to be executed
- --execute-arguments, --exec-args: function arguments. Any argument with the exact same order the function receives, seperated by comma or space
- --execute-address, --exec-addr: `PoaToken` contract address. It can be a real address or index number in PoaManager token list.
- --execute-txConfig, --exec-tc: tx params for the function to executed. Ex: '{"from":"0x1c34e1325d5193cdf95fc6e863edc789a798a23e", "value": 10000000}'

Example for starting `Eth Sale`
```

yarn migrate:dev --uec --exec PoaToken --exec-addr 0x3e5d48f04b942fce33f12eb582aa4364106962f5 --exec-fn startEthSale'
```

Example for buying poa token
```
# --exec-addr can be either a real POA token address or an index number on POA Manager token list

yarn migrate:dev --uec --exec PoaToken --exec-addr 0 --exec-fn buy --exec-tc '{"value":100000, "from":"0xb95cb8ffbdf31b9dc19caad6208a49c8248b6249"}'
```


#### Using Truffle Console

`yarn truffle console --network dev`.

This will open a node.js repl session, with all the compiled contracts available as usual (ie. `BrickblockToken.deployed()` or `PoaToken.at(some-address)`).

If you'd like to interact with contracts on a public testnet (ie. rinkeby, kovan) then we have a command  that also uses `truffle console` and additionally makes use of the library `truffle-hdwallet-provider`. This allows us to specify a remote node to connect with and a mnemonic to give access to accounts in that HDWALLET (like MetaMask does).

NOTE: any valid bip39 mnemonic will work fine unless you want to send transactions or ETH, then you will need ETH in the sending account like usual. Feel free to use the example `HDWALLET_MNEMONIC` below.

An example for rinkeby is:

`HDWALLET_MNEMONIC="ridge approve ten planet fever oyster cargo upper frequent humor hen alcohol" INFURA_URL="https://rinkeby.infura.io" yarn repl`
